The BEST Motorcycle Speakers for Under $200
or
How to Choose the 5 BEST Motorcycle Speakers in 2017



Intro
There's nothing like cruising the open road listening to some really good tunes. It makes trips more entertaining and helps pass the time.
If you have a motorcycle, you may assume it's not possible to cruise to your favorite songs - but you'd be wrong! A modern motorcycle sound system will let you enjoy great music as easily as any car.
We decided to compare the best motorcycle speakers so you can bring your playlist with you anywhere, anytime.
Why You Should Get a Motorcycle Sound System
If you want to listen to music while on the road, you've got several options to choose from. You can get speakers for your helmet, or you can get external handlebar-mounted speakers that fit directly to the bike itself and are powered by the battery.
We strongly recommend choosing the best motorcycle handlebar speakers. Why?

1. Safety
The number one consideration when you decide to add any component to your ride should be safety. Mounted handlebar speakers today are specially designed to help cancel out road noise and wind. Helmet speakers can be dangerous - you lose too much awareness of your surroundings.
Ever notice when someone is driving by with a really killer sound system? I bet you do - it's human nature to see what all the fuss is about. If your speaker system on the bike produces good, powerful audio, you'll get the most important thing a motorcycle rider needs for safety: attention - and lots of it!

2. Convenience
When your speakers are attached to your ride, you don't have to worry about helmet comfort or design. You can change your helmet, too, without having to worry about changing or moving your sound system. If you love feeling the wind in your hair, handlebar speakers are the way to go.
Bluetooth capability is not required (as you'll see) but it is a strength of certain sound systems. The more wires you have, the less elegant the installation - and naturally it's less easy to control if you're using a wired remote. Anything that distracts you from controlling your bike should be avoided.

3. Versatility
With handlebar speakers, your sound system can be used in many situations and enjoyed by everyone. Roll your sleeves up and work on the bike in the garage while listening to your favorite songs - or just park it outside with your friends and share a few drinks while you listen to the radio.
On long road trips, parking by the side of the road and taking off your helmet to feel a cool breeze run through your hair shouldn't interrupt your sense of Zen. Mounted handlebar speakers let you maintain focus without turning off the sound.
How to Choose the Right Speakers
Buying motorcycle speakers isn't quite the same as buying components for a car or home stereo system. Before you start shopping, it's wise to take a few things into consideration.

Fit
First, you have to make sure that the speakers you buy fit your motorcycle. This seems obvious, but modern systems are ingeniously designed to fit most handlebars. They aren't universal, however - so measure the width of your bars first.
Most handlebar clamps are designed to fit 0.75" to 1.25" handlebars. If yours are larger or smaller, you'll probably need specialized mounting equipment.

Power
Now you'll need to decide how powerful you want your system. Do you travel on the highway a lot, or do you mostly cruise around town? Using speakers on the highway requires more wattage to cancel out road noise, so if you do a lot of long-distance travel you'll want a system that's capable of higher watts.
If your bike is a total beast, then it's going to require a lot more juice to create clear music over the sound of your strokes.
Remember: These speakers are 12-volts and powered by your battery. Your bike won't produce as much juice as the typical car, so you don't want to overdo it. A car can offer virtually unlimited power, but your bike probably doesn't have the same kind of potential on hand to push audio to the system.

Input
How do you want to deliver your music to the speakers? Are you going to get a separate head unit, or use an external device like an iPod or phone to source the signal? Most speakers come equipped for either; personally, I think a head-unit is overkill for a bike and provides yet another dangerous distraction.

Water Resistance
Finally, consider the environment you'll be riding in. Wet or rainy conditions require more profound water resistance. Most speakers come advertised as 'weather-proof' - but this shouldn't be confused with waterproof. This is a stricter definition and few audio components can meet waterproof criteria.
A weather-proof system promises to resist water penetration in most conditions - but it shouldn't be left out in the elements for long periods of time.

Mounting Your New Speakers
Okay, so you know what to look for, and you found the perfect system.

Now how do you put it in?
Your speakers will come with detailed mounting instructions, but there are a few things you should consider if you've never mounted a motorcycle sound system.
Grounded wires need to be tucked underneath the body and out of the way

Watch the heat! Don't mount your amp near the engine or it can quickly overheat. Hide it from view to help deter theft while making sure it has good ventilation.
It may come with a bar clamp to hold your music player, but this is optional. To save space and improve stealth, consider finding a spot to hide it on the frame. 
Speakers will fit flush to the bar, and should not interfere with your ability to handle your ride. Make sure they're balanced; improper placement might cause some wobble.
Wired or wireless? Wireless remotes are recommended; some can be modified to fit where you grip the handlebars so you can change songs while controlling your ride.
As you'll find, modern motorcycle components come in several shapes and sizes.



BOSS AUDIO MCBK470B Black 1000-watt Motorcycle/ATV Sound System
If you're an audiophile, then you're probably familiar with BOSS.
Founded in 1987, BOSS is a relative newcomer on the audio scene. They've quickly gained significant market share by focusing on quality audio components for niche markets - like motorcycles, ATV, and marine sound systems.
This is our top choice because it comes with everything you need for a totally satisfying audio experience. It comes in your choice of sleek, glossy black or polished chrome. This system operates with a juicy 1000-watt amplifier, more than enough to overpower highway noise and the satisfying roar of a fat engine.
It comes with two pairs of 3" weatherproof speakers that are designed to minimize your aerodynamic profile. It equipped with Bluetooth capability and seamless smartphone integration. If you're really picky about your audio experience, you have the option of using a standard 3.5mm auxiliary input for external music devices like an iPod. 
Finally, wireless volume control lets you adjust your listening experience in total convenience. This is a bigger deal than it sounds - try untangling a wire while cruising on the highway!
We tested the others and while each had their strengths, only this system provided what we consider the 'full package' of features.
Pros:
Outstanding acoustic fidelity
Streamlined aerodynamic design
An impressive 3-year platinum warranty
Cons:
Weather resistant, not water-proof
Amplifier has no on/off switch


Motorcycle Audio 250W 2 Speakers by Shark
Another excellent choice comes from Shark Motorcycle Audio. Shark specialized in motorcycle speakers. As a result, they offer some premium features that you can't find in other systems.
What kind of features? Well, the one that jumped out immediately to us was that unlike other systems, the Shark system is actually waterproof. That means it stands up to environmental damage in a way that few audio components can match.
Elite water resistance isn't the only thing that makes the Shark system so attractive to us. I feel it has the sexiest design of any motorcycle speakers on the market, and it comes fully equipped with excellent user features like FM radio, dual-option wired/wireless remote control, and Bluetooth capability.
As if that weren't enough, it even has an SD slot and a USB port. You don't need to plug in an iPod or phone; just load your music files onto a flash drive, plug it in, and start rocking out!
Power is satisfactory. It boasts 250-watt output with crisp audio fidelity, a stunning LCD display, and rugged mounting system. In our view, this is a premium choice for motorcycle sound systems at an affordable price.
Pros:
FM radio capability with external antenna
2 remotes - one wired, one wireless
Waterproof system lets you face the elements in total confidence
Cons:
LCD can be difficult to read in bright light
Wiring is a challenge on longer bike designs


BOSS AUDIO MC420B Chrome 600 watt Motorcycle/ATV Sound System
If you want a system that's a little easier on the wallet, but still has BOSS-level sonic fidelity, then we suggest the 600-watt BOSS device. With only a single pair of speakers, it offers a more streamlined profile for your bike. It still has Bluetooth for wireless streaming, along with an auxiliary input for your external music device.
The speakers (not the amplifier) are waterproof, so it can even swim like a Shark. Just be sure to install your amp out of the way of the elements.
BOSS offers their systems in two color choices - black or chrome. It even has the old-school RCA inputs (red, white, and yellow) to integrate with any audio component on the market.
Pros:
Boss's signature full-range acoustic speaker response
Simple mounting system adjusts to fit most handlebars
Waterproof speakers
Cons:
Wired volume control


SMC95BC Bluetooth Motorcycle/UTV Speaker & Amplifier System by Sound Storm Laboratories
Sound Storm Laboratories was founded in 1997 by professional audio enthusiasts. Their mission was to prove to the industry that elite audio equipment could be engineered at a price affordable for the everyday consumer.
Consequently, Sound Storm has created a powerful acoustic system with elite frequency response.
It comes with 2 pairs of 3" 1000-watt amplified motorcycle speakers with crisp highs and strong bass response. If you like rich lows, you'll probably prefer this system to the others on the list. It comes equipped with Bluetooth capability, auxiliary input, and weatherproof components.
This product is the real deal. It delivers excellent audio quality even at highway speeds, and the juicy power output guarantees fidelity against even the loudest choppers.
Pros:
Powerful audio performance with rugged amplifier
Elegant design sure to turn heads
Best sound in class
Cons:
Installation can be difficult
Limited 1-year warranty


PYLE PLMCA20 100 Watts Motorcycle/ATV/Snowmobile Mount Amplifier
If you're really ballin' on a budget, then check out the Pyle speaker set. You'll be sacrificing some power, as the mini-amp only offers 100-watts, but if you want to maintain battery life for long periods, this might be your best bet. No Bluetooth connectivity means you'll be forced to use the single auxiliary input for your external music devices.
It also comes equipped with FM-radio. User-friendly features allow you to control treble and bass response.
If you just want a simple, reliable system to listen to music while easy cruising, we think that PYLE provides adequate audio at a fantastic value.
Pros:
Inexpensive
Easy on your battery
Simple installation
Cons:
Weak acoustic output
No wireless controls


Our View
Choosing the best motorcycle speakers to fit your lifestyle is no easy task. There are so many options to choose from, and every rider has a unique feel for their bike they don't want to lose.
Safety is the most important part of the open-road. We like the Boss 1000-watt motorcycle sound system because it produces unbelievable sound at good volume - which will certainly gather you some attention. Crisp audio, wireless streaming, and mounting simplicity make it our top choice for the best motorcycle handlebar speakers in 2017.
Don't just take our word for it - click the links above and go check out what real consumers just like you had to say about their new components. The best sites offer free shipping and additional buyer protection. Don't wait - the open road is calling. Fair warning! With an awesome sound system, you'll likely find yourself riding more than ever.
